How to Make IntelliJ IDEA look Amazing!

We all know that programming is a fascinating thing. When it comes to writing code, most coders prefer to customize their IDE's on their own to feel motivated, and it brings positive vibes from inside.

So, in this tutorial, I'm going to help you guys to customize IntelliJ IDEA IDE.

Follow the steps given below to customize your IDE:

Step 1: Go to the File option in the menu and then choose the settings option.

In settings, you'll find many options to customize your IntelliJ IDEA.

To Change Theme of IDE:

Choose the theme option in the appearance part of the settings. You can select any one of the four themes and can apply it.


There are many ways to customize the IDE. But for this tutorial purpose, I'll tell you the most efficient and best way to make the IDE look professional and premium by using the Material Theme UI plugin.

We will use the Material Theme UI plugin, and the steps to use the material UI are given below:

Step 1: Go to File>Settings and then choose the plugins option.

Step 2: Go to the Marketplace in plugins and search for "material" and the first result will be "Material Theme UI". Click on the install option to install it.

Step 3: Install "Atom Material Icons" to make the IDE icons look attractive and cool.

After installing both the plugins, click on the restart IDE option to restart the IDE so that all the changes can take effect.

Now go to File > Settings > Appearance & Behaviour > Appearance, and there you'll get many of the new themes that you can use to make your IDE look professional.

You have to choose any one of the themes and then click on the apply option to see its effect.

To Change the Font:

You can even change the font type and size of IDE according to your choice.

In Appearance, you will get the option to use custom font. And there, you can choose any font and can adjust its size accordingly.

To Change Icons:

In Appearance, you'll get the option of "Atom Material Icons Setting", and there you can change the icons of different things of IDE.

